
Der Mann sieht den kleinen Hund.

Die alte Frau gibt dem Kind ein Buch.

Ein Lehrbuch ist ein Sachbuch, das für das Studium oder den Unterricht didaktisch aufbereitete Lehrstoffe und Materialien anbietet. Sofern Lehrbücher wissenschaftlich noch nicht abschließend geklärte Fragen enthalten, wird in einigen Disziplinen zwischen der „herrschenden Lehrmeinung“ bzw. „herrschenden Lehre“ und „Minderheitsmeinungen“ oder „anderen Ansichten“ differenziert (z. B. beim Historikerstreit). Lehrbücher können ideologisch[1] abhängig sein. Konzentriert sich das Lehrbuch auf die Wiederholung des Lehrstoffs, spricht man von einem Repetitorium. Die Lehrbücher an Schulen werden Schulbücher genannt. Kurz gefasste Lehrbücher werden auch als Kompendium oder Abriss bzw. Grundriss bezeichnet.

Tell me, O Muse, of that ingenious hero who travelled far and wide.

Academic discourse tends toward nominalization, hypotaxis, and deferred reference.

El gato negro duerme tranquilamente sobre la silla vieja.

La pluma de mi tía está sobre la mesa de la cocina.

Le chat noir dort paisiblement sur la vieille chaise.

Je voudrais une tasse de café et un croissant, s'il vous plaît.

Il gatto nero dorme tranquillamente sulla vecchia sedia.

Ogni mattina mi sveglio presto per leggere il giornale.

O gato preto dorme tranquilamente na cadeira velha.

Gallia est omnis divisa in partes tres, quarum unam incolunt Belgae.

Arma virumque cano, Troiae qui primus ab oris.

Πάντες ἄνθρωποι τοῦ εἰδέναι ὀρέγονται φύσει.

Ἐν ἀρχῇ ἦν ὁ λόγος, καὶ ὁ λόγος ἦν πρὸς τὸν θεόν.

В начале сотворил Бог небо и землю.

Кошка спит на старом стуле возле окна.

朝に道を聞かば、夕べに死すとも可なり。

桜の花が静かに春の風に舞っている。

學而時習之，不亦說乎？

道可道，非常道；名可名，非常名。

البحث عن الحقيقة هو أشرف عمل يقوم به الإنسان.

في البدء كانت الكلمة، والكلمة كانت عند الله.

בְּרֵאשִׁית בָּרָא אֱלֹהִים אֵת הַשָּׁמַיִם וְאֵת הָאָרֶץ.

संस्कृतं देववाणी इति प्रसिद्धा भाषा अस्ति।

धर्मो रक्षति रक्षितः।

Mr. President, Friends and Fellow Citizens: He who could address this audience without a quailing sensation, has stronger nerves than I have. I do not remember ever to have appeared as a speaker before any assembly more shrinkingly, nor with greater distrust of my ability, than I do this day. A feeling has crept over me, quite unfavorable to the exercise of my limited powers of speech. The task before me is one which requires much previous thought and study for its proper performance. I know that apologies of this sort are generally considered flat and unmeaning. I trust, however, that mine will not be so considered. Should I seem at ease, my appearance would much misrepresent me. The little experience I have had in addressing public meetings, in country schoolhouses, avails me nothing on the present occasion.

The papers and placards say, that I am to deliver a 4th [of] July oration. This certainly sounds large, and out of the common way, for it is true that I have often had the privilege to speak in this beautiful Hall, and to address many who now honor me with their presence. But neither their familiar faces, nor the perfect gage I think I have of Corinthian Hall, seems to free me from embarrassment.


A textbook is a book containing a comprehensive compilation of content in a branch of study serving to explain the subject. Textbooks are produced to meet the needs of educators, usually at educational institutions, as well as learners (who could be independent learners outside of formal education). Schoolbooks are textbooks and other books used in schools.[1][2] Today, many textbooks are published in both print and digital formats. 